Here are a few of the "gotcha" issues I've found with cloud computing over the last thirteen years:

1.) Before AWS (and Azure, and GCP) got rolling, the high cost of physical infrastructure forced organizations to carefully plan computer and storage scaling, with a close eye on the budgetary requirements since scaling up usually meant a big outlay of capital. In the cloud world, where compute and storage are available pay-as-you-go, organizations often fail to keep an eye on the total cost of ownership. Where I've really seen it bite organizations is in failing to implement cost-conscious snapshot lifecycles. For instance, one organization I worked with had set up nightly snapshots of their big data platform and set their retention to seven years to comply with their understanding of legal discovery requirements. AWS EBS snapshots only store the blocks on the volume that changed, so for most applications, snapshots only add an incremental amount to storage costs each time a snapshot is taken. The nature of big data platform components (i.e, NiFi, Hadoop, Kafka) is that data is changing constantly. For this customer, the nightly snapshots included hundreds of terabytes of data. When I audited their architecture, it was a pretty easy win work with them to rework the Enterprise Disaster Recovery and Retention policy to recognize that the source data itself lived in S3, and that the data on the instances was effectively ephemeral (even if there was a petabyte of EBS in addition to the petabytes in S3). Clearing out the snapshots older than 90 days (a first step) and setting EBS lifecycle policies resulted in $4 million in EBS snapshot savings alone. It's worth noting that AWS Trusted Advisor never caught this issue.

2.) Lock down your S3 buckets. Too data leaks have occurred because S3 buckets were by default publicly available to anyone with an AWS account. AWS has become a lot better at encouraging S3 user security via the S3 console, but it's still pretty easy to screw up. If you use the console, set Organization and Account policies requiring bucket encryption and CloudWatch alarms to detect public buckets and buckets without encryption enabled and enforced via bucket policy. Even better, create buckets using a standardized Terraform or CloudFormation template that include the appropriate policies, and only provision buckets using those tools.

3.) Run away from "Cloud Broker" contracts. Ten years ago, few Enterprises really understood how competition would play out in the cloud. Several large IT service companies positioned themselves as "Cloud Brokers" who would help negotiate commoditized compute pricing on the fly, charging a maintenance fee on top of the costs charged by the cloud providers. Initially, the migration costs of jumping from one cloud to the other wiped out any potential compute savings; later, containerization and other "cloud agnostic" platform approach mitigated this, but the compute costs were so close, and the services so differentiated, that jumping between clouds also didn't make sense. Today, rather than getting sucked into a cloud broker agreement, analyze the time, effort, and cost of switching clouds, record it as technical debt, and manage your development lifecycle with an eye on switching costs to avoid vendor lock-in.

4.) Because you are no longer constrained by the physical, a poorly designed application running in the cloud can cost you almost infinitely more than the same poorly designed application running on-premises.