DevSecOps is about achieving velocity at scale by eliminating bottlenecks between organizational silos. Business leaders created these silos with good intention: to allow deep specilization in a particular are; to mitigate risks through organizational checkpoints and controls; or to improve operational efficiency by servicing business needs through clearly defined functional teams. While well-intentioned, these silos also create ineffeciencies in the technology supply chain: check points become choke points; standards and practices conflict; tribalism pervades. The result is longer time-to-market, reduced quality, and toxic culture.

While some organizations may use DevSecOps to break down those functional silos and reorganize as a single team, some choose to keep the silos, but open the doors to facilitate collaboration between teams. Regardless of the implementation, the result is improved communication across job functions, allowing DevSecOps teams to identify and eliminate bottlenecks, streamline controls, and align priorities around creating value for the organization with minimal friction. 

The key DevSecOps principles champion in the organizations with which I work include:

- Delivering small value often is better than delivering large value (maybe) never.
- No change is small: Security and operations are key stakeholders in developmet efforts; operations and developers are key stakeholders in security efforts; security and developers are key stakeholders in operations efforts. To deliver high-quality, high-value solutions, teams must engage with their key stakeholders continuously, coordinating change in a way that respects the impact to everyone. 
- Drive towards Continuous Authority to Operate by inherit controls whenever possible, and building reusable or inheritable controls when new controls are required. 
- Everything-as-Code is The Way. Infrastucture-as-Code, Compliance-as-Code, and Configuration-as-Code are foundational to achieving Continuous ATO, or at minimum, keeping your head above water while maintaining good change control in an Enterprise environment. Small techology organizations can't scale competively without investing in the reliable repeatability of coding their core assets. 
- Automate first. Any manual process represents technical debt, and while technical debt can be a useful tool, many organizations misuse it. By insiting that generates continuous value must be automated, an organization can reliably and repeatable recover from outages, minimizing lost value.  