I'll admit that I've resisted Docker, or more broadly containerization, until last year. I was perfectly comfortable building highly scalable, fault tolerant, cost-effective cloud applications on AWS (and occassionally Azure - once on GCP). Why would I want to try and solve again for containers challenges with data persitence, end-to-end encryption, patch management, and access management when I'd already solved those problems with EC2, or eliminated them altogether with Lambda, DynamoDB, RDS, S3, EFS, ALBs, Security Groups, etc.? 

Today, I'm a bit more open-minded. I can see how, with a properly managed Entperise container platform like Kubernetes and Openshift, combined with a service mesh like Hashicorp Consul, a secure software supply chain, and automated build/deploy pipeles, most of problems with early Docker containers are solved, and the real advantages of containers (portable, disposable application engines runnng the bare minimum of kernel and supporting systems needed for the application) can accellerate CICD as we mature towards a continuous ATO environment.

Personally, in addition to experimentation, I use Ansible and Docker locally to build a hardened DISA STIG RHEL7 UBI image that I deploy to various customer container repositories. I use simple Docker containers on EMR to provide SSO reverse proxies to EMR applications like Hue and Ganglia. I also build and deploy to EMR a custom Jupyter Hub image that contains various Data Science kernel environments (i.e., ArcGIS, PySpark, R, Python 2.7).

For the past six months, I've been getting more familiar with Kubernets and Helm charts, deploying various applications in EKS and self-managed Kubernets clusters. I'm still wrapping my head around K8s routing and TLS (Hashi's Consul service mesh is a life-saver). The experience has led me to form strong opinions about when to containerize (i.e. applications designed to run in multi-agent clusters processing data queues, or simple application front-ends for persistent backend data) and when not to (i.e. RDS is almost always a better choice than trying to run a database in K8s).

Ultimately, container images and container platforms are just more tools in the toolbox.